README.md, before:

# ToolDog

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bio-tools/ToolDog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bio-tools/ToolDog)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/bio-tools/ToolDog/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/bio-tools/ToolDog)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/tooldog/badge/?version=latest)](http://tooldog.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![Python 3](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6.0-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-360/)
[![Gitter Chat](http://img.shields.io/badge/chat-online-brightgreen.svg)](https://gitter.im/ToolDog/Lobby)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/tooldog.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/tooldog)

ToolDog (TOOL DescriptiOn Generator) aims to generate XML template for Galaxy or CWL from
the description of tools from [Bio.tools](https://bio.tools).

------------------------

# Quick-start guide

## Installation

#### Requirements

You can then install ToolDog using pip with the following command:

```bash
pip3 install tooldog
```

## How does it work ?

ToolDog supports import either from [bio.tools](https://bio.tools) or from a local
file (downloaded from [bio.tools](https://bio.tools) in JSON format). It can generates XML
for Galaxy and CWL tool but also annotates existing ones (only support XML so far...).

```bash
usage: tooldog [-h] [-g/--galaxy] [-c/--cwl] [-f OUTFILE] biotool_entry
```

To import from [bio.tools](https://bio.tools), specify the `biotool_entry` with the following format: `id/version`:

```bash
tooldog --galaxy integron_finder/1.5.1 > integron_finder.xml
```

You can also use local file downloaded from [bio.tools](https://bio.tools) API
by giving its name directly:

```bash
tooldog --galaxy integron_finder.json > integron_finder.xml
```

More information about ToolDog usage [here](http://tooldog.readthedocs.io/en/latest/how_to_use.html).

## References

Kenzo-Hugo Hillion, Jon Ison and Hervé Ménager. ToolDog – generating tool descriptors from the ELIXIR tool registry.
F1000Research 2017, 6:767 (poster at ELIXIR all hands meeting).
doi: [10.7490/f1000research.1114125.1](https://f1000research.com/posters/6-767)

Hervé Ménager, Matúš Kalaš, Kristoffer Rapacki and Jon Ison. Using registries to integrate
bioinformatics tools and services into workbench environments. International Journal on
Software Tools for Technology Transfer (2016) doi: [10.1007/s10009-015-0392-z](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10009-015-0392-z)

Commit message:

specify docker requirement for code analysis part

README.md, after:

# ToolDog

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/bio-tools/ToolDog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/bio-tools/ToolDog)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/bio-tools/ToolDog/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/bio-tools/ToolDog)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/tooldog/badge/?version=latest)](http://tooldog.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)
[![Python 3](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6.0-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-360/)
[![Gitter Chat](http://img.shields.io/badge/chat-online-brightgreen.svg)](https://gitter.im/ToolDog/Lobby)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/tooldog.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/tooldog)

ToolDog (TOOL DescriptiOn Generator) aims to generate XML template for Galaxy or CWL from
the description of tools from [Bio.tools](https://bio.tools).

------------------------

# Quick-start guide

## Installation

#### Requirements

You need Docker to be installed on your computer in order to perform the code analysis step of ToolDog.

You can then install ToolDog using pip with the following command:

```bash
pip3 install tooldog
```

## How does it work ?

ToolDog supports import either from [bio.tools](https://bio.tools) or from a local
file (downloaded from [bio.tools](https://bio.tools) in JSON format). It can generates XML
for Galaxy and CWL tool but also annotates existing ones (only support XML so far...).

```bash
usage: tooldog [-h] [-g/--galaxy] [-c/--cwl] [-f OUTFILE] biotool_entry
```

To import from [bio.tools](https://bio.tools), specify the `biotool_entry` with the following format: `id/version`:

```bash
tooldog --galaxy integron_finder/1.5.1 > integron_finder.xml
```

You can also use local file downloaded from [bio.tools](https://bio.tools) API
by giving its name directly:

```bash
tooldog --galaxy integron_finder.json > integron_finder.xml
```

More information about ToolDog usage [here](http://tooldog.readthedocs.io/en/latest/how_to_use.html).

## References

Kenzo-Hugo Hillion, Jon Ison and Hervé Ménager. ToolDog – generating tool descriptors from the ELIXIR tool registry.
F1000Research 2017, 6:767 (poster at ELIXIR all hands meeting).
doi: [10.7490/f1000research.1114125.1](https://f1000research.com/posters/6-767)

Hervé Ménager, Matúš Kalaš, Kristoffer Rapacki and Jon Ison. Using registries to integrate
bioinformatics tools and services into workbench environments. International Journal on
Software Tools for Technology Transfer (2016) doi: [10.1007/s10009-015-0392-z](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10009-015-0392-z)
